There's a lot of talk about productivity
gains through AI. There's this camp of
people are like so overhyped. Nothing's
working. Nobody's actually adopting this
at scale.
>> We see a significant amount of games. We
find engineering teams that are very
very AI forward are reporting about 8 to
10 hours saved per week.
>> Whenever I hear a stat like this, I
think an important element is this is
the worst it will ever be. This is now
the baseline. The truth is the value is
changing every day. So you need to ride
that wave along with it. There's a story
I heard you share on a different podcast
where there's an engineer who has goose
watch him. He'll be talking to a
colleague on Slack or an email and
they'll be discussing some feature that
they think is useful to implement and a
few hours later he'll find that goose
has already tried to [music] build that
feature and open a PR for it on Git.
What level of engineer is most
benefiting from these tools? What's been
surprising and really amazing? The
non-technical people using AI agents and
programming tools to build things. The
people that are able to embrace it to
optimize for their particular workday
and their particular set of tasks are
really showing the most impact from
these tools. How do you think things
will look in a couple years in terms
[music] of how engineers work that's
different from today? All these LLMs are
sitting idle overnight and on weekends
while humans aren't there like there's
no need for that. They should be working
all the time. They should be trying to
build in anticipation of what we want.
What's maybe the most counterintuitive
lesson you've learned about building
products or building teams?
>> A lot of engineers think that code
quality is important to building a
successful product. The two have nothing
to do with each other.
Today, my guest is Dani Prasana, Dan's
chief technology officer at Block, where
he oversees a team of over 3,500 people.
With Dan's leadership, Block has become
one of the most AI native large
companies in the world and has basically
achieved what many and product leaders
are trying [music] to achieve within
their companies. In our conversation, we
chat about their internal open-source
agent called Goose that by their measure
is saving employees on average 8 to 10
hours a week of work time and that
number is going up. How AI specifically
making their teams more productive and
the teams that are benefiting most?
Interestingly, it's not the engineering
team. What it took to shift the culture
to be very AI oriented, the very boring
change they made internally that boosted
productivity even more than any AI tool.
Also, lessons from building Google Wave
and Plus and Cash App and so much more.
This episode is for anyone curious to
see what a highly AI forward,
technologydriven large company looks
like and [music] can act like. If you
enjoy this podcast, don't forget to
subscribe and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. It helps
tremendously. Also, if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of 16 incredible
products including Devon, Replet,
Lovable, Bolt, NAN, Linear, Superhum,
Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma, Perplexity,
Warp, Granola, Magic Patterns, Raycast,
Chapardd, and Mobin. Head on over to
lennisnewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Dani
Persona after a short word from our
sponsors. This episode is brought to you
by Cinch, the customer communications
cloud. Here's the thing about digital
customer communications. Whether you're
sending marketing campaigns,
verification codes, or account alerts,
you need them to reach users reliably.
That's where Cinch comes in. Over
150,000 businesses, including eight of
the top 10 largest tech companies
globally, use Cinch's API to build
messaging, [music] email, and calling
into their products. And there's
something big happening in messaging
that product teams need to know about.
Rich communication services, or RCS.
Think of RCS as SMS 2.0. Instead of
getting texts from a random number, your
users will see your verified company
name and logo without needing to
download anything new. It's a more
secure and branded experience. Plus, you
get features like interactive carousels
and suggested replies. And here's why
this matters. US carriers are starting
to adopt RCS. Cinch is already helping
major brands send RCS messages around
the world. [music] And they're helping
Lenny's podcast listeners get registered
first before the rush hits the US
market. Learn more and get started at
cinch.com/lenny.
That's s.com/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by Figma,
makers of Figma make. When I was a PM at
Airbnb, I still remember when Figma came
out and how much it improved how we
operated as a team. Suddenly, I could
involve my whole team in the design
process, give feedback on design
concepts really quickly, and it just
made the whole product development
process so much more fun. But Figma
never felt like it was for me. [music]
It was great for giving feedback and
designs, but as a builder, I wanted to
make stuff. That's why Figma built Figma
Make. With just a few prompts, you can
make any idea [music] or design into a
fully functional prototype or app that
anyone can iterate on and validate with
customers. Figma Make is a different
kind of vibe coding tool. Because it's
all in Figma, you can use your team's
existing design building blocks, making
it easy to create outputs [music] that
look good and feel real and are
connected to how your team builds. Stop
spending so much time telling people
about your product vision [music] and
instead show it to them. Make codeback
prototypes and apps fast with Figma.
Check it out at figma.com/lenny.
Doni, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Thank you,
Lenny. Uh, it's a great pleasure to be
here.
>> I want to start with a letter that I
hear you wrote to Jack Dorsey to
convince him that he and that block
needed to take AI a lot more seriously.
I think you called it your AI manifesto
and it seems like it really worked.
We're going to talk a lot about changes
that came as a result of that. So, let
me just ask what did you what did you
say in this letter and what happened
right after you sent that letter to him?
>> So, about two and a half years ago or
so, uh Jack really felt like things
needed to change. I think he had a sense
that the industry was going in a
different direction. So he got about 40
of the company's top executives into a
room on a weekly basis and they all used
to sort of talk everything through that
was going on and he added me to that
group. Uh so at some point I observed
that we were talking about lots of deep
things, lots of relevant things but no
one was really paying attention to AI.
And so that's when I wrote that letter.
And to be honest, it's I think taken on
a life of its own. But there wasn't much
to the letter other than I think we
should do this. I think we should do it
centrally. And it's important for us to
uh be ahead of the game and be an AI
native company because that's where the
industry is heading.
>> Let me just say it's important to note
you were not CTO at this point. You were
just like a senior engineer kind of
person. I was uh just in fact I was
part-time at the time because I had just
had a kid and I was you know coming back
in and I was helping out one of the
engineering teams. Uh, and then Jack
came over to Sydney and spent two days
with me and, you know, both of us like
long walks, so we we walked all around
Sydney and talked it through up and down
and then um yeah, he he offered me the
job and I thought it was a great
opportunity once in a lifetime, so I
took it.
>> It's like a be careful what you're good
at sort of situation. [laughter]
Okay. So what what were some of the
bigger changes that you made after Jack
is on board and block execs are on board
of cool this is completely right we need
to go much bigger and think much more
deeply about how AI is changing how we
build and how we should build. What were
some of the bigger changes that you made
from a perspective of other companies
listening to this trying to think about
what they should be doing? At the start,
my main focus was to get Block to think
like a technology company. And it for a
long time, we had had a little bit of I
want to call it identity drift. Maybe we
were talking about ourselves as a
financial services company. Some people
called us fintech, all of this stuff.
But when I started working at what was
then known as Square, we were always
thought of as a technology company just
like Google or Facebook or any of the
others. And so I wanted to get us back
to that. And so the first thing I did
was to try and institute a number of
programs that focused on that. So
everything from getting the top IC's in
the company together uh to talk to each
other to starting a whole bunch of
special projects. So we got about two to
five engineers per project. There were
about eight or nine different projects.
And we had reinstituted the companywide
hack week. And so all of this just kind
of created a little bit of a spark of
like, hey, we're building technology
again. We're trying to push the frontier
again. And that's how it started. And
then there were a whole number of steps
after that where we went from a GM
structure to a functional org structure
which was I think the key to making our
transformation into being more of an AI
native company.
>> Okay, talk more about that. What does
that mean? What does that look like? Why
is that so important?
>> Absolutely. So when we were in our sort
of mature phase, so when Square was
working quite well, it was a very large
business and then we had started Cash
App and that also followed suit,
we had spun them out almost as a uh what
we call a GM structure. So they were
effectively run as a portfolio of
independent companies and they had their
own CEOs who all reported to Jack and it
was still one single executive team but
they had separate engineering practices.
They had separate design teams. They
they were kind of separate in almost
every way except for some shared
resources like our foundational
resources like legal and some platforms
and things like that. So I think that
that was very useful for us for the
stage of company that we were in. But
when you really want to go deep in
technology, when you really want to
connect with these things that are sort
of industry changing events that are
happening, you need a singular focus and
uh we we changed the organization. So
all engineers report into one single
team. Now all designers report in one
single team and there's single head of
engineering, single head of design etc.
And so that was the big transformation
that we made and that meant we could
really drive forward AI, we could drive
forward platform and just technical
depth generally for companies that are
struggling with this potentially or
trying to figure out how to do this. Two
things I'm hearing here is uh start to
see yourself as a technology company. It
doesn't necessarily apply to every
company, but seems like an important
element is like we're building
technology. We're not a financial
company. We're not a real estate
company. We're not mortgage company.
We're technology company. And then two
is organize the team such that say
engineers report up to an engineering
leader versus a GM who maybe doesn't
understand engineering as well or
doesn't take it as seriously as they
should.
>> Yeah, I think that's that's pretty much
what we did. And you know, not to lean
too heavily on this, but this is what
Jobs did when he came back to Apple as
well. He reorganized Apple to be
functional. And it wasn't like we were
following a playbook. We we discovered
this as we were investigating what it's
going to take to make these teams more
tech focused and to bring our DNA back
to uh back to our roots which was really
was putting engineering and design first
which is what technology first means to
me. So yeah, I would say to companies,
you know, find your DNA and like really
try to optimize for what that is in a
very simple and clear way.
>> Okay. So you made a bunch of changes.
You had this manifesto. Everyone's on
board. You made a bunch of changes.
Functional technology first. Comparing
the way that your say engineering team
works today versus two or three years
ago. What is most different?
>> Not everyone was on board. I'll tell you
that it was quite a painful
transformation.
I think that one of the things that I
learned the most throughout this process
is that uh Conway's law can be really
really powerful. So it's the law that
basically says you know you ship your
org structure. So what you're organized
as in terms of teams in terms of
collaborating groups and and your
operating model matters a lot to what
you build. And so I think that that was
essentially
the biggest change is we had a lot of
momentum in each of these silos. Be it
Cash App, be it Afterpay, be it Square
or even Title, our music streaming
service. And no one was really talking
to each other. No one was really aligned
on technical strategy on what we even
wanted to be five years from now as a
collective team. And so all those things
are different now. Uh I'm not saying
it's perfect. There's still a long road
ahead of us, but we at least speak the
same language. We're all uh have access
to the same tools. We share the same
policies. So like a certain level of
senior engineer means the same thing
across the whole company. Uh people can
move from one team to another into an
area of need. All of these things are
are very different. But to sum it up, I
would say we're technically focused and
we're focused on advancing technical
excellence as a goal and that just
really wasn't that true two to three
years ago. I mean, there were other
things we were optimizing for then.
Maybe going one level deeper in terms of
how people actually work dayto day. So
if you're looking at an engineering
team, say the average engineering team
and maybe also like the top most optimal
engineering team, how is the way they
work today different from a couple years
ago in the small certain teams that are
very very AI native? or teams that are
building AI first everywhere are working
much differently than before because
they're using Vibe code tools and
they're essentially building without
writing lines of code by hand. Uh and
that just wasn't true two to three years
ago. I don't think it was true anywhere
in the world. So that's dramatically
different in teams that are still
working with very heavy legacy code
bases. it's less true, but they're also
encountering these sort of background AI
processes. So, we have these tools that
run 247 or run in the CI pipeline and
they're analyzing vulnerabilities.
They're looking at even bugs filed on
tickets and trying to build patches
while engineers are asleep. So, they
come in and the next day and and look at
it. So it I would say there a number of
ways in which they're different but
different teams have um adapted in
different ways depending on how close
they are to the tools.
>> Okay. So let me lean into that AI piece
which is I think where you guys are most
ahead of a lot of other companies. You
guys built your own
>> uh agent I think is what is how you
describe goose. So there's a lot of talk
about productivity gains through AI.
There's this camp of people are like,
you don't understand how much
productivity there is to gain from AI.
It's the future. This is the way it's
all going to work. We're all
accelerating 10x. There's also this camp
of people are like, it's so overhyped.
Nothing's working. People talk about it.
All these pilots are failing. Nobody's
actually adopting this at scale. Feel
like you're probably in that first camp.
What sort of gains have you seen
practically from AI tools on your teams?
Our number one priority is to automate
block which means getting AI and getting
uh AI forms of automation through our
entire company
and we feel that that's just at the
beginning of where the utility is with
all these large language models and I
think we're going to continue to see
that improve but even now we find
engineering teams that are very very AI
forward that are using deuce every day
are reporting about 8 to 10 hours saved
per week. Uh and this is self-reported
and then we also have a number of check
metrics to try and validate that. So we
look at PRs, we look at throughput of
features, we look at a whole bunch of
things and we have our data scientists
come up with a complicated formula that
tries to distill it all into something
meaningful. And uh we feel across the
whole company we're probably trending
towards 20 to 25%
of manual hours saved. Uh and I think
that's just the start of of all of this.
I do feel that the more AI native
companies are doing a better job of
realizing this. So companies that
started just with AI startups mostly.
But there is some truth to this notion
that AI isn't a panacea and it's growing
as well, right, in capability. So you
need to ride that wave along with it.
And I think a lot of the companies
aren't realizing this. They're like,
well, where's the value? And the the
truth is the value is changing every
day. And so you need to be adaptable and
look at what the value is today and plan
for what the value will be tomorrow. and
then slowly expand to the areas where
it's more most efficacious. Like I'll
give you an example.
One area in which we find that it's
really good is for non-technical teams
to be able to build little software
tools for themselves. So this has been
one of the most surprising and
energizing uses of goose within block is
we'll have our enterprise risk
management team build a whole system for
self-serviceing
enterprise risk and this is compressing
like weeks of work into hours
and or ordinarily they would be waiting
for an internal apps team or something
to go and build that and they would put
that on their Q2 road map and everyone
would be uh twiddling their thumbs until
it all clicked into place, but now you
can just go and do it. And so a lot of
these kinds of use cases we're seeing an
enormous amount of um productivity gain
in. The other area which I'm really
excited about is we have this other tool
called Gling which is a goose for mobile
effectively. So it operates your Android
uh OS at a native level using the
accessibility API
and we use that for automating UI tests.
So before you would have to hire an army
of contractors or uh QAS who would go
and click through every screen but now
we can just bake those into uh automated
tests and then give you like a report at
the end. So, we're seeing a lot of
advantages in those types of areas. But
where you have
a lot of depth and a lot of like really
strong people come together is where AI,
I think, still underperforms humans. And
that's something that's probably going
to get better over time, but it's also
something where we should lean into as
humans. So when you have some very
senior engineers and they're thinking
about things like architecture and
design and race conditions,
orchestration, things like this, that's
still an area where AI isn't quite
there. And so I think the companies that
aren't feeling the success in AI are
trying to just throw these tools at
their giant code bases and hoping good
things will happen. And that's not how
it's playing out. Eventually, I do think
it'll get there, but uh right now we're
still in the early utility phase.
>> Holy moly, there's so much there in what
you just shared. There's like five
things I want to follow up on. Okay, so
one is this metric you kind of alluded
to, which is how you measure the impact
of AI in your team. So, it was manual
hours of of humans, human manual hours
saved. Is that how you describe it?
>> Okay. And it's roughly a fourth of an
engineer's time currently is being saved
by AI tooling.
>> That metric is across all teams. So that
would be like our support teams, our
legal teams, our risk teams, all of them
together.
>> Wow.
>> And then on the engineering side, it's
very variable because like I said
before, it matters how big and how
complex the code base is. And so if
you're building a totally new green
fields codebase or you're building a app
for a new platform then we we're seeing
those pretty aggressive gains but in you
know very complex code bases that
already exist those gains are not quite
there yet. That's amazing. And whenever
I hear a stat like this I think an
important element that people need to
think about is this is the worst it will
ever be.
>> This is the lowest. This is now the
baseline. Right.
>> Yeah. And so uh and so it may not sound
that may not sound that crazy yet but
it's going to get crazy. Okay. The other
thing that you talked about is goose.
You haven't explained what goose is.
This is a huge deal.
>> Explain what goose is and how important
this has become to you guys.
>> So goose is a general purpose AI agent.
Uh so you can think of it as a desktop
tool or a uh a program that you can
download and install on your computer
and then it has a UI. You can talk to it
just like a chatbot and you can say
anything from hey goose organize my
photos by category and it has the
ability to look within your photos and
you know if there are a lot of trees
it'll organize them as nature photos and
if there a lot of people it'll organize
them as portraiture all of this sort of
stuff to writing software for you. So it
can do all of these tasks and the way
we've been able to do this is through
something called the model context
protocol which or the MCP which a lot of
your listeners might have heard and this
is something that anthropic came up with
that we were a very early contributor to
and the model context protocol is very
simply just a set of formalized wrappers
around existing tools or existing
capabilities. So if you have tools that
you use in the enterprise, be it
Salesforce or be it Snowflake or SQL,
any any of these things, you can wrap
them in the MCP and then that it exposes
them to your LLM to be able to
manipulate. So until that point the uh
LLMs were not really able to do much
other than chat but goose gives these
brains arms and legs to go out and act
in our digital world and and that's
where we find it's had most impact and
it's built on this fairly open protocol
that anyone can implement. There have
been an explosion of MCPs. Goose is
entirely open source by the way. So any
of you can download it and extend it,
write your own MCPS.
Uh and that's that's been our core
successes through goose.
>> Okay. So this essentially like cloud
code with a UI desktop app sort of thing
built on top of uh cloud and open AAI
chat GBT and a bunch of open source
models. Is that right?
>> Yeah, it can use any model. So we have a
pluggable provider system and you can
either bring your own API keys and use
uh the cloud family of models or open
AI's family of models or you can use
open source models and you can download
them and uh use them directly or via
Olama and other there are several tools
that help you do that but essentially
it's taking the capability of these
models to generate text and to interpret
ate text and applying them to real world
situations. So one example that I really
like is you can ask Goose to go and
build you a marketing report and it has
MCPs to connect to Snowflake and Tableau
and Looker. So it'll write SQL to pull
out data from there. It'll do some
analysis and CSV so it can write Python
code on your desktop to do all that. It
will generate some graphs using some
JavaScript charting library that it
knows about and then finally it'll put
this all into a PDF or Google Doc or
whatever and it can even email it for
you or upload it somewhere. And it's
doing all of this on its own by the way.
It's no one's sitting here telling it
that. You're just saying, "Hey, I want
this report. I want this emailed here. I
want these pretty charts." Um, and it's
orchestrating across all these systems.
So essentially ad block instead of using
claude or chat directly or even cursor
and all these apps they use goose. Yeah
we allow our engineers and our general
employee population to use any tools
that they want. Goose is the one that's
most well integrated into all of our
systems because it's built on the MCP
and it's so easy to create an MCP for an
existing system. So for example, if
you're using a issue tracking tool and
you want some AI automation added to it
before goose, our teams would have to
wait for the vendor to build that AI
capability in there or maybe there's
some way in which OpenAI or Anthropic or
Google would provide that general
purpose capability where we could plug
those in. But with Goose, that's no
longer necessary with a few lines of
code that an MCP represents. All these
systems are orchestrable with AI
basically overnight. And Goose can write
its own MCP. So it's pretty uh
bootstrappable as well.
>> And this is open source. And basically
you've spent all its time building this
thing. Any other company can now
implement it and and build on all the
work you've done.
>> Yeah. And we have a lot of companies
using goose pretty actively.
I don't want to name too many names, but
from our competitors to our sort of
close partners, a lot of them are using
goose pretty regularly on their teams. I
know data bricks talks about it a lot,
but they're, you know, everyone you can
you can think of in this midte tier is
using goose in some form.
>> That's insane. This feels like it could
have been a massive business of its own.
Like uh some of the fastest growing
companies in the world basically this is
their product and you've built it and
given it away. Yeah, we believe in the
power of open source and you know our
our core one of our core missions is to
increase openness and that means
contributing to open protocols and
contributing to open source and you know
as a tech company we're built on a lot
of open-source software. I think pretty
much every tech company is whether
you're talking about Linux or Java or
MySQL or any of these essential
components. And so we feel like we have
a strong imperative to give back. We
want to build things that not only are
good for us and our customers, but that
outlast block and outgrow block. That's
certainly a core value for us and has
been from the beginning. Uh even long
before this whole AI phase. So yeah,
Goose follows in that proud tradition
and yeah, we're very excited that it's
had the success it's had. What's the
story with the name Goose, by the way? I
can't help but ask. Goose is a Top Gun
reference. Okay.
>> Um, so what our engineer that came up
with it,
>> uh, he also looks exactly like Goose, so
it's kind of crazy if you put them side
to side.
>> He's going to be really embarrassed with
my sharing this, but um, that's the
reason why I call it Goose. And then we
went lent into the whole bird theme
after that.
>> That's incredible. There's a story I
heard you share on a different podcast
where there's an engineer who takes this
to the extreme and has goose watch him.
Talk talk about that. Share that story.
Yeah, absolutely. So, he is very very AI
focused and he's trying to extract all
these crazy ideas from Goose and Goose
can do all of the things that I
described through specific interactions
with tools, but it can also just watch
your screen. So, like it understands how
to process images and process uh the
things that it's looking at through
screenshots. And so he built this system
where it's essentially just watching
everything he does all the time and
he'll be talking to a colleague on Slack
or an email and they'll be discussing
some feature that they think is useful
to implement and then a few hours later
he'll find that Goose has already tried
to build that feature and open a PR for
it on on Git and uh and all sorts of
other wacky things like that. So, it'll
it'll try to nudge him out of a workflow
if he's running over on a meeting and
he's late for something else. Uh, it it
sort of comes up with these creative
things that he didn't program or he
didn't write prompts for, but that it
thinks will help him improve his
productivity or improve his workday. So,
yeah, it's pretty crazy. you have to
have the stomach forehead to to be that
um level of tied in to your working
tools, but it kind of shows you what's
possible with tools like this. Clearly,
this is where things are going once this
gets good enough. I love this guy is
just trying it. So, it's basically
watching him work and anticipating what
he should be doing and does the work for
him as a first draft so that he's like,
"Oh, the PR is already done on this
thing we were just talking about at this
meeting."
>> That's incredible. Exactly.
>> How uh how good is it? Like where's it
at if you had to go zero to 100 of like
okay it's gonna all you have to do is
now think and talk and it'll just do
your job.
>> Yeah. So voice is the other big part of
it. So it has voice processing
capability. So it's always listening to
what he's saying as well and and trying
to interpret that.
>> I would say that
>> this is mostly an experiment. You know
given that he he's on our core goose
team and he contributes to goo. So he
has a day job. This is a kind of thing
on the side that he was developing. So
once this evolves into more more of a
native feature of Goose itself or other
tools that we use in the enterprise, I
think it can have a lot of lags, but
it's already pretty good. I mean, it's
probably cutting down enormous amounts
of busy work that he has to do. So, for
example, one thing he'll do is he'll
say, "Oh, I have a meeting conflict. I
can't make it." that time or I have to
go pick up my kid and Goose will
automatically reschedule that meeting
without him ever sort of sitting in
front of his calendar and clicking
through 10 times.
>> Yeah. So, these are things that I think
we were waiting for the calendar vendor
to build as features into calendar, but
we don't need to do that anymore because
AI is able to orchestrate this for us.
>> This isn't that guy that had like four
jobs at four different startups that was
able to [laughter] paralyze all his work
in
>> No, it's not. He's he's uh he's someone
that I've worked with for a long time
and uh he's been at Block for a long
time and he's he's just loves
experimenting and he embodies that
culture of experimentation just like um
our creator of Goose uh who who did the
same thing. So let me pull that thread a
little bit. You're you're kind of seeing
a glimpse of where things are going.
You're very uh ahead of the curve in a
lot of ways at Block. where how do you
think things will look in a couple years
in terms of how engineers work, how
product teams work that's different from
today? I think a lot of it is dependent
on the improvement of LLM performance,
but I can tell you the way I'm trying to
change how I work and how I'm trying to
change our immediate team's way of
working. So I think vibe coding has been
an interesting exciting thing which is
you talk to a chatbot essentially and it
goes and builds software for you. But I
think this is highly limiting. It's very
pingpong like you do something you wait
for three or four minutes and it comes
back with something sort of halfbaked
and you have to nudge it and guide it
and massage it to get where it needs to
be.
I think that we're going to see much
more autonomy. So, we're working on a
couple of experiments with Goose with
the next version of Goose where we're
really trying to push it to work not
just for two or three or five minutes at
a time. Our average, our median session
length is five minutes and on average
seven, but we're trying to push it to
hours. You know, we're trying to say,
hey, all these LLMs are are sitting idle
overnight and on weekends while humans
aren't there. Like, there's no need for
that. that they should be working all
the time. They should be trying to build
in anticipation of what we want. If we
go back to uh the earlier part of the
conversation,
but also I think that they should be
able to build in ways that were never
possible before. Before we as humans, we
had limited resources, limited
bandwidth, and a lot of coordination
overhead. So we would have to choose the
best path to try in an experiment. And I
don't think we need that anymore. We
need instead to be able to describe
multiple different experiments in a
great amount of detail. And then maybe
we go to sleep and then in the morning
all those experiments are built and we
can sort of throw away five or six of
them. So, one of the things that I do
regularly, so I write code every day,
but one of the things that I do
regularly is just throw away huge huge
amounts of code. And it's kind of hard
for me because I'm never I've never done
that before. I mean, obviously engineers
love deleting code, but this is
different. This is you build a whole new
system or a whole new feature and you're
like, ah, it doesn't feel exactly right.
I'm just going to delete and start start
over. So, I think you're going to see a
lot more of that way of working.
And I think that you're going to see
instead of us, for example, refactoring
a an app to have a different UI or to
evolve into its new version. We're just
going to rewrite that app from scratch.
And one of the things I'm really pushing
our teams to think about is what would
our world look like if every single
release we RM minus RF like deleted the
entire app and rebuilt it from scratch.
And so we can't really do that today.
But I think this shows you some of the
direction of what's possible and where
these tools are taking us. What's
interesting about that is that there's
kind of this um common rule in software
engineering and just product. Don't ever
just rewrite. Don't try to rewrite your
thing because you're gonna forget all of
the small improvements and tweaks and
bug fixes people have made over the
years and you think it's going to be
this simple straightforward thing and
ends up being now it's like a year or
more of just getting you back to where
it was and it's so interesting that AI
now can make that possible and what
you're saying is that's actually maybe
the way you should be working.
>> I think so. And I think that the trick
is getting the AI to respect all of
those incremental improvements.
>> Yeah. and sort of like bake those in as
um
>> as a part of the specification if you
will.
>> Yeah.
>> Also, the point you made about this
agent just kind of you give it a
[snorts] bunch of ideas, it builds them
overnight and then you could see I
imagine it it goes even further up the
stack and comes up with the ideas and
then starts building them and then
you're like, "Okay, oh, that was a great
idea. Now I can see it immediately in
the same same workflow."
>> Yeah, that's that's true. I was actually
literally trying what you're saying just
uh last week. And so I have this new
version of Goose that we're working on
and I was asking it to come up with
ideas to improve itself and implement it
overnight. And [snorts]
>> sometimes problem.
>> Yeah.
>> Sometimes it kind of goes off off the
script entirely and uh you have to sort
of pull it back a bit. So I think we're
we're not quite at that era where it's
completely self-improving and um
completely autonomous. But I do think
we're in a in a transition phase where
we can give it that nudge and say, "Hey,
here's my like wish list of 10 things
that I wish you could do. Go and figure
out the best way to do them." And it's
successful, I would say, on like 60% of
those things if the features are well
enough described. And it struggles on
the remaining 40 where you have to kind
of intervene and and massage it. Yeah.
Oh man, I'm just imagining this future
where you give it the goal of drive
revenue and growth and then it's just
like, okay, everyone's fired. Here's pay
here's your paychecks. Uh, I'll take it
from here. It's just
>> I don't think we're going to be there. I
I do think we're going to need a lot of
human taste to anchor these AIs so they
don't go off script to be honest. And
that's really where um our our design
lead and our design teams are pushing us
to think and and that's a differentiator
that I think will push us beyond this
era of AI slop that everyone's talking
about. So yeah, it's very much like
anchoring it into a thing that matters
to people and the thing that's tasteful
and useful and has value. To make that
even more concrete, is is there an
example of something maybe AI was trying
to do or a team was trying to pitch
where you had to just like know this is
where humans are going to step in and
keep things keep things on track. I'd
say it was more around
things like process automation
or you know a lot of times I'll get this
sort of request where a team will say we
need to buy this new tool from this
vendor because our current tool isn't
doing X Y and Z and another team will
say no no no we can just use goose to
build an app that will you know do the
same thing for us in half the time or
bless and then as a human you're sitting
there thinking
is any of this necessary like if we just
change the process do we even need to
think about building tools and this is
the thing that AI isn't good at it's not
a able to have this sort of portfolio
judgment or judgment across a global
sense of what's important and what
matters so a lot of times I tell teams
just question like the base assumption
particularly our infosc teams because
they'll they'll twist themselves into
knots sometimes trying to secure
something and you'll be like well just
ask the team that's building it to do it
differently or to not build that at all
if it doesn't matter and then you won't
have to increase your surface area of
securing securing it so I think those
are the areas where uh it's better for a
human to use judgment and AI has not
done a great job
>> you make this point about building your
own software, your own tools instead of
buying stuff. This is a big question
with AI. Is it going to replace all
these SAS apps to Salesforce over? How
is there a sense of just either how much
money you guys have maybe saved building
your own stuff or have you built a
newound respect for the existing SAS
software that everyone's using and and
pays lots of money for? I think there's
a trap in getting away from your core
purpose as a company and our core
purpose is economic empowerment. So,
getting customers or merchants or
artists the ability to make a sale or
pay their rent or upload their latest
creation to title. And I think that
anything that serves that purpose, we
should encourage and we should invest
in.
But if we're just purely looking at
dollars versus dollars, then that's like
pulling us off that purpose, like the
savings and cost that there might be in
replacing a vendor tool by something you
build in house is probably not worth it
in the mental bandwidth that you've lost
and the amount of the team's sort of
technical focus that's being taken away.
So yeah, I would say it's just keep
coming back to the thing that matters to
you as a company and then the rest is,
you know, will follow from that.
>> Yeah, I think people forget just how
much maintenance it takes to keep
something you've built. Like, okay,
cool. We built it in a weekend and now
it's years of endless maintenance and
requests and support and and also to
your point, it's like it feels like it
comes back to the uh always motto of
just focus on your core competencies and
then buy everything else. Yeah, it's the
classic 8020 problem and we have that
enough with our with the apps that we
build for our customers, you know, like
we'll build some great experiments that
that really resonate and then we have to
spend a lot of time ironing out the long
tale of problems. So in cash card for
example, we we built the entire
functionality of cash card I would say
pretty much in a weekend or maybe a week
of sort of integration and work and then
it took a really long time to iron out
all these edge cases where you know
someone would tip twice the value of the
bill and then it would completely break
uh something in the back end or you know
people would use it as a gas station and
they have a different way of um billing
your hard. So, yeah, it's very much that
and and to your point, I would go always
come back to like what is the reason
we're doing this? Why does it matter to
us and to our customers? And if it
doesn't clearly satisfy that, um, I
would just push it off as a not
interesting thing. This episode is
brought to you by Persona, the verified
identity platform helping organizations
onboard users, fight fraud, and build
trust. We talk a lot on this podcast
about the amazing advances in AI, but
this can be a double-edged sword. For
every wow moment, there are fraudsters
using the same tech to wreak havoc,
laundering money, taking over employee
identities, and impersonating
businesses. Persona helps combat these
threats with automated user, business,
and employee verification. Whether
you're looking to catch candidate fraud,
meet age restrictions, or keep your
platform safe, Persona helps you verify
users in a way that's tailored to your
specific needs. Best of all, Persona
makes it easy to know who you're dealing
with without adding friction for good
users. This is why leading platforms
like Etsy, LinkedIn, Square, and Lyft
trust Persona to secure their platform.
Persona is also offering my listeners
500 free services per month for one full
year. Just head to withpersona.com/lenny
to get started. That's
withpersona.com/lenny.
Thanks again to Persona for sponsoring
this episode. One of the biggest parts
of the conversation around AI is head is
hiring jobs things like that. So there I
have two kind of this two-part question.
One is just how has the rise of all
these AI tools this increased
productivity impacted the way you plan
headcounts and uh hire and then what do
you look for that's different in people
you're hiring now that AI is such a big
part of the way you guys work? I don't
think that things have progressed far
enough that it's really impacted in a
fundamental way how you would how many
people you would need to sort of build
an app of the scale of cash app for
example I think what's changed for us is
much different and it has nothing to do
with AI it's that what we talked about
earlier is moving from our GM structure
to a functional structure and in our GM
structure our incentives were always to
think of engineering headcount as a
commodity. And so we would just add more
engineers if we wanted to build more
features. And the classic um mythical
man person month trap or whatever it's
called. And I think that moving to a
functional structure completely changes
that. And you're like, well, we can
leverage common platforms, common
modules.
we can bring in experts from across the
company to advise us on how better to do
this. And so those kinds of things I
think have made it much different in how
we hire. And we no longer see engineers
as a commodity to to just sort of add
100 people to go and build, you know,
the next uh product and cash app. But on
the AI side, we're very much looking for
people that are embracing these tools
and that are eager to try and learn from
it. We're not looking for people who are
amazing AI practitioners on the get-go.
I think we have those people and we're
interested in those people if they're
ever want to work with us, but I'm much
more keen on looking for that college
grad who just really is eager to learn
about these tools and like open to it or
even the veteran who has embraced these
tools and figured it out. And that's
kind of where we're optimizing for uh
who we look for rather than rather than
sort of a specific set of skills.
>> So essentially the biggest change is
just looking for people that are
embracing AI, not being like, "No, I'm
I'm a I don't need this stuff. I'm I'm
an amazing engineer. I don't need to use
cursor or goose or all these things."
>> Yeah. A learning mindset is how I would
put it. This is something that Jack, our
CEO, talks about a lot. um is he wants
us to be a learning first company. So
everything we do, every experiment that
we ship, what can we learn from it? And
did we feel that we gave it our best
shot? And I think that that's more
important to him than even sort of
coming up with the right business uh
answer every time. What about when
you're interviewing? Are you encouraging
engineers to use AI tools as they're
doing exercises? How does that how did
that change over the past year or two?
>> Yeah, we're starting to do that now. So,
traditionally we would just use um like
coderpad or something like that to
whiteboards through a problem or and
even like program it uh in pseudo code
or near pseudo code. But now we're we're
looking at can you use vibe code to
build something? Can you how are you how
comfortable are you with these tools or
how are you thinking about evolving
uh with them as well? But it's early
days yet. I would say that it's not
clear to me that necessarily how someone
knows how to use, you know, be it goose
or cursor or any of these other tools
matters that much to whether they're a
good engineer. I still think the things
that we interviewed for in the past, a
critical mindset, the ability to really
understand deeply the technical nature
of a problem is still much more
important than um whether you're a fully
AI native programmer or not. Another
question that I've always been thinking
about, a lot of people wonder is what
level of engineer is most benefiting
from these tools? You could argue it's
the junior engineers now they could just
get all this work done. You could argue
it's senior engineers because they know
so much more about how things work and
how they could just orchestrate
thousands of agents doing their bidding.
What have you seen in terms of which
level is benefiting most? Yeah. So, two
answers to that. One is you're
definitely right that the more senior
and the more junior they are, the more
comfortable or the more eager they are
to adopt these AI tools.
And and I think that's for a variety of
reasons, including some of them that you
named. Like I think the senior people
really understand in great depth how
everything works. And so they're almost
relieved that this tool exists that can
go and do all these things that they've
done a million times before and couldn't
be bothered. And then the junior people
are like uh my niece and nephew on a
Blackberry or something. They're just
blitzing through things. um not
Blackberry in the early days in iPhones.
Now they're blitzing through uh a text
message when I'm still sort of seeking
destroying uh through my keyboard. Shows
you how old I am. So I think there's
that. But I think the non-technical
people using
AI agents and programming tools to build
things is really what's been surprising
and really amazing. And I think that
speaks to how these roles are going to
evolve in the future. The lines are
going to be blurred between whether
you're in legal or in risk or in
engineering and design even. And so I
think that the people that are able to
embrace it to optimize for their
particular workday and their particular
set of tasks are really who are showing
showing the most um most uh impact in
from these tools.
>> It's interesting no one talks about that
element of engineering productivity
which is the reduction of asks from all
the other parts of the company to build
random one-off things. That feels like a
huge productivity gain for engineers. It
is massive. Although I think that it's a
little bit like the analogy of if you
build a bigger highway, you'll just get
more cars on the road. So I think the
fact that everyone's building software
means that there's more software to be
built, more coordination to happen, and
everyone's more eager to ship things
faster and and um with greater results.
And so we're just seeing an overall
uptick in velocity and the ask for more
features if that makes sense. Yeah,
[clears throat] absolutely. And it
connects to your point about you're not
slowing hiring. What I'm hearing is just
headcount hiring uh desires for more
engineers, more product people is not
slowing at all. You're basically it's as
if AI wasn't really there.
>> We're being more thoughtful about it. So
like I said, we were looking at as a
commodity in the GM era
>> and now that we're functional, it's much
less about how many engineers we need as
a function of the number of features we
have in square or cache app. And in the
functional org structure, we think of it
much more as what are the areas of
optimization, where can we build depth
and what really accelerates our
priorities through things like
modularization, reuse, and uh going deep
into platforms.
>> I love this hot take of uh if you're
trying to be more productive, forget AI,
just reorg into a functional structure.
[laughter]
It's not wrong in some ways. So, here's
another really interesting example
where we are trying to improve our build
times and we're using we're using goose
and a lot of other tools to help us with
this too and they've done remarkable
things. So we have this really cool tool
that analyzes our test suites and
selects the right test to run for
changes that were made. So we cut down
basically 50% of test runs this way,
which is pretty great and like we're not
warming the planet as much with all
these unnecessary CPU cycles being
wasted on tests. But then things like
offloading tests to the cloud or simply
just deleting tests that don't make
sense anymore probably save you two to
three times that. So there is still a
portfolio approach that you need to take
for lack of a better term. It's like
that example I told you earlier about
should we buy a vendor tool or should we
build this inhouse? It's like well do we
even need to do this process at all? So
in some ways structure matters more than
the efficacy of the tools you have.
>> Wise words makes me think about Elon has
this whole process for how to optimize
stuff and one of the steps is like do we
even need this thing before we start
optimizing and automating it.
Before I zoom out and ask about just
general lessons that you've learned over
the course of your career, is there
anything else that you think might be
really valuable or useful to folks that
are trying to lean in further into AI or
just help their teams think a little bit
more forward thinking? I would say
really try and use these tools yourself.
So the way in which I think we've been
able to drive most of the adoption
is Jack uses goose, I use goose, our
executive team all have used goose um
and use it regularly and use other uh
other AI programming tools and
assistants as well and we do it every
single day and so we learn a lot about
how our own workflow can change and
that's going to tell you so much more
about how are you going to change your
organization's workflow than if you're
reading a bunch of think pieces on
LinkedIn or Harvard Business Review or
whatever it is and then trying to get
your teams to follow suit. So I think we
do this with everything. It's feel it
like use the product yourself, feel it,
understand its strengths and weaknesses
and its ergonomics
and then figure out how to apply it to
your teams. Something I found helpful in
doing that, which I completely agree
with, which is like stop reading about
it. Stop listening to us talking about
it, just like build some stuff. The
thing the the thing that I found really
helpful there is have a specific task or
problem you want to solve for yourself
>> because that really motivates you and
makes it very real. For example, just
the other day I was trying to pull
images out of a Google doc. You know,
like Google Doc, it's like I think of
his Hotel California. You put images in
there, but there's no way to get them
back out unless you [laughter] do some
crazy stuff. So, I just went to Lovable.
like build an app where I can give you a
Google doc URL and let me download the
images really easily and bam. Yeah,
perfect.
>> Yeah, great example. I did something
like this uh a couple months ago as well
where my son has a whole bunch of
therapies. he has additional needs. And
so I was trying to gather all the
receipts for all these therapies and um
share them with my wife and she she will
like claim it from our insurer. And I
was really struggling to do this cuz
they they're in various forms. They're
screenshots in some cases. They're PDFs
or whatever. So, I asked Goose to do
this and it was all sitting on my laptop
and Goose figured out that it could put
all of these receipts into
my Apple Notes app into a single note.
It converted it to HTML so it would sync
seamlessly to my phone and then I could
email it or share it with her from
there. And that's just something I just
never would have thought of. And it did
this using Apple Script. So it just
controlled my computer for me in the
background. And yeah, so these are like
surprising ways in which these tools
help us. And the more you use them to
solve real problems to your point, the
more you understand what their strengths
are and where to where you can deploy
them.
>> I love this example. How did So did you
just go to goose and be like here's the
problem I have. How would it how would
you solve it?
>> Yeah, pretty much. I said I have all
these receipts there in Google Drive. So
we have similar origin problem there and
I need to get them into a single form
and I need to like collate the totals
and do all this. So it tried a few
approaches first. It tried to download
them and it tried to read them using a
PDF reader and this and that. And then
the thing about Goose that I think a lot
of the other AI agents learn from us as
well is if it tries a few things and
fails, it'll back up and it'll try a
different route and it'll just keep
going until it makes some prog uh some
progress.
And that's what it did. And then it it
picked Apple script as a way to do it
because it had the MCP extension to
control my computer. And this is the
same thing that our um our engineer we
were talking about the other day uses to
watch his screen and things like that.
But this was a very focused problem and
it and it managed to do that. So yeah,
it's it's surprising what these tools
can do and allowing them the kind of
flexibility to do that is a big part of
learning how to use them.
>> That is cool. Uh I love the By the way,
can you run Goose like as a regular
person? Can you just download Goose and
use that instead of
>> Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, you can just
download it from uh our our URL. We can
share it in the show notes for you.
>> Um and yeah, you can install it. It it
comes for Mac and Windows and Linux. I
believe it's an Electron app, so it'll
work on all of them. It also has a
command line, so for people who are more
comfortable uh using that, we have that
um UI as well. Wow, you really are
competing with these massive
foundational model companies building is
what's the simplest way to compare Goose
to something else? Is it like is cloud
code the simplest comparison or is
something else?
>> I think it's a bit different than cloud
code because at its core goose is a
platform that implements MCPs and so
MCPs give it this dynamically extensible
nature. So, it can do all of these
things for you, whether it's automating
things like we were talking about with
Google Docs and notes and things like
that, or it can do straight up
programming tasks for you using other
MCPs like so it can index code and do it
that way. So, it's really more of like
an extensible platform. So, I would say
it sits somewhere between your classic
AI assistant where you just ask it, you
know, what's the weather today? Can you
calculate how many months it's been
since this date or whatever it is to um
the more focused cursors and cloud codes
of the world.
>> Basically, it's everything combined.
Holy. And free. Uh you pay for the LM
tokens, but uh but yeah.
>> Yeah. open source models which
>> oh my god this is crazy what a cool team
to be on building goose that's at block
must having you must be having so much
fun
>> oh man okay let me zoom out a little bit
so you've been CTO I'm looking at
LinkedIn right now for just about two
years what's something that you wish you
knew before you stepped in this role if
you could go back a couple years and
just whisper a few tips and tricks or
lessons in and see your ear what would
they be
>> I think maybe two different things.
One is just the power of Conway's law.
Like we talked about before, it's like
how difficult it is to change outcomes
without changing
the structure of relationships between
people in an organization.
And I think I always kind of knew that
at some level, but really appreciating
it in a visceral way is big. The other
thing that I really learned the hard way
maybe is you only hear about it when
things are going wrong. So when things
are going well, you kind of have this
eerie silence and you're like, well, am
I doing the right things here? Am I
focusing on the right problems? Uh so
having a bit of judgment, having a bit
of time to step back and look at things
holistically,
those are things that you really need to
make time for. and and uh do on a
regular basis, which I wish I had known
when I took up the role. Looking back at
your time at Block, I keep trying to I
almost say Square because I'm so used to
that over the year, but I know Block is
is the name of the broader company and
Square is just one is that just so
people understand Square is one business
unit, one product within Block.
>> Correct. Yeah, we have uh Square,
Afterpay, Cash App, and Title are are uh
four major brands. And then we also have
Bit Key and Proto that are focused on
Bitcoin for us and they uh we ship
hardware uh in those two brands.
>> Okay, great. I think that some people
are like, "What are you even what are
you guys talking about?" Okay, cool. So,
reflecting back on your time at Block,
what's maybe the most counterintuitive
lesson you've learned about building
products or building teams that goes
against what most people believe, say,
common startup wisdom? I think code
quality is one like being an engineer. I
learned this kind of very early on and
it it keeps coming true over and over
and over again. A lot of engineers think
that code quality is important to
building a successful product. The two
have nothing to do with each other. My
favorite example is YouTube. Uh, I was
working at Google around the time
YouTube was acquired and I just remember
there was this whole wash of angst about
how horrible the YouTube codebases and
how terrible their architecture is and
they're storing videos as blobs in my
SQL and whatnot.
And you know, you could argue that
YouTube is the most successful product
at Google by a long way, right? like
maybe more successful than many of their
others combined. And so it really has
very little to do with how well it was
architected
because the flip side of that, Google
Video, which is a product that I don't
know if people remember, it existed
before YouTube, it supported more
formats. It supported higher resolution.
You could upload, you know, hour-long
videos. YouTube had none of this. it
just had the like one or two minute
quick video thing and it's far and away
uh blown away its competition and so I
think just keeping that front and center
is why are we building these tools or
these apps or these products they're for
people to solve a specific problem. So
in our case, it's for a Square merchant
to make a sale to sell coffee to you or
to sell something they've made. And
that's really what's important. It's not
really important uh how well our Android
platform performs
uh unless it's serving that need. And so
I think that's been a really hard one
for me over my career. And I continually
encounter engineers who think we need to
refactor. We need to do this in a better
way. We need and then I'm like no this
all this code could be thrown away
tomorrow. So just focus on what we're
trying to build and whom we're trying to
build for. That is an incredible insight
and lesson. And this YouTube story is so
fun uh and such a good example. you were
saying they were storing the video like
uh content in a in a my SQL set like row
and column as a blob data. Yeah, this is
this is what uh I mean I didn't actually
look at the code so I I couldn't verify
it but this this was the sort of common
wisdom and then they had a an entirely
Python stack that was incredibly slow
compared to the state-of-the-art sort of
C++ and Java servers that we had hyper
optimized at Google back in those days.
That is hilarious. Makes me think about
also companies like when you look inside
a company, if you work at a company,
you're just like this is just pure
chaos. No one knows what's going on.
This is just about to all fall apart.
And if that's basically what it's like
at every successful hyperrowth company.
>> Yeah, there's some truth to that for
sure. Yeah.
>> And so I think again it's just there's
so much more that is more important to
the success of a business. And it's what
you said is are you solving a real
problem for people? Can you get in their
hands? Can you continue solving real
problems for them? It's not about the
quality of the code. It's not how well
you operate internally.
>> Absolutely. I I think on Cash App, we
had that as well. So, uh in the early
days of Cash App, I was head of
engineering from when we were about 10
engineers to, you know, 200 plus and
took us to about 10 plus or um 20
million users thereabouts. And
there was a very similar thing there.
It's like from the outside it looked
like everything was really chaotic. It's
like people would build random
experiments and ship them and it just
didn't look like we were following
strict policies on things like software
life cycle and stuff like that. And it
was kind of true. And my philosophy was
always we have all these brilliant
engineers and I'm going to do more harm
than good by trying to harness them into
very strict sort of blinkered areas if
they want to spin their wheels building
something that is a complete waste of
time for a little bit. But at the same
time, if they're delivering these
amazing things on the flip side, then
I'll almost allow that. Like I'll I'll
be okay with that. And um you know, it's
a fine balance because engineers can
really go off in into rabbit holes if
you let them. But yeah, there's a
certain amount of creativity that chaos
breeds and you have to know how to build
controlled chaos in some ways. So you
have to create a foundation that isn't,
you know, liable to rupture or like you
have major reliability problems or
something like that or you're going to
lose money in our case. And so as long
as those things are bedded down and you
allow your engineers to have the freedom
to experiment and iterate and do the
things that energizes them, like that's
the ideal.
Uh uh speaking of controlled chaos, your
uh one of your titles during your time
at Block at I guess this was while you
were actually at Square was mad
scientist for four four and a half
years.
Yeah, that was uh that was a time when I
was working part-time mostly because I
had very young kids with lots of
additional needs and
I was a consultant on various different
projects and I was trying to help sort
of some wacky things get off the ground
and uh yeah I just I'm really grateful
to Block that they afforded me the
freedom to have that role in my career
as well. Maybe one more question before
I take us to uh to fail corner which
I'll explain. So you've shared a few
lessons of things you've learned over
the course of your career. Are there any
other just let's say core leadership
lessons that you've learned that have
you think have been important to you
being successful at the work that you've
done? I think start small with
everything. Like if you try to boil the
ocean to make a cup of tea, I don't know
who said that, but it's a really a
useful phrase that I keep coming back
to. Uh you'll you'll never get there. So
if you're making a cup of tea, just make
the cup of tea. You don't need to boil
all the water that there is. That sounds
like really a not delicious tea. Ocean
ocean water. Uh yeah, I think uh there's
another one of like um I think Carl Sean
said uh if you want to make an apple pie
from scratch, you have to first invent
the universe. So it's like narrow your
scope to the thing that's in front of
you and that's achievable.
And so that that I think is really
important and that's one of our core
tenets and always has been even when we
were just square in the early days.
Start small. Is there an example that
that maybe worked really well or maybe
didn't work?
>> Yeah, I mean, Goose started small. It
was just an engineer working on their
own time trying to build something that
was useful and that satisfied a thesis
that they had. So, uh, Brad, our creator
of Goose, um, believed very early on, I
think long before we heard the buzzword
going around that agents would be how we
unlock value from LLMs
and he built a proof of concept and he
shared it with a bunch of people. he
shared with data bricks and anthropic
got them excited and you know learned a
lot from them and so it just sort of
built momentum from there and even
internally it was um quite a quite a
similar thing. Cash app itself was like
that and cash app started more or less
as a hack week sort of idea and grew
into a bigger and bigger and bigger
thing. So a lot of our projects start
with these small experiments that we try
to then build on top of. Um we became
the very first co company that was a
public company to launch a Bitcoin
product and that was again a hack week
idea that um actually Jack and me and
another engineer worked on. Uh
>> that was the hackathon team. You and
Jack Dorsey and an engineer. [laughter]
Yeah, it was the three of us.
>> Unreal.
>> And um yeah, and and it was great. It
was we we went and bought a cup of
coffee at Blue Bottle
>> and it was bought using Bitcoin over
Cash Card. And I'll tell you that was in
in hindsight probably the most expensive
cup of coffee.
>> What was Bitcoin at? Like 20,000 six or
7,000 back then.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh no. It's like 120,000 now. Great.
>> Inflation. Um, but yeah, it's an example
of how, you know, you you get to a
working useful product to people if you
focus on a small thing first and then
build.
>> And just to double down on this, this
counter to okay, we have a big idea,
we're just going to put a bunch of
resources on it and go big immediately.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And I've been part of
teams like that, too. So uh in my career
I worked at Google on this product
called Google Wave which was trying to
be everything to everyone and you know
we were 70 80 engineers building this
thing before it even really had any
users outside Google. And so I think
that's an example of something that
started big, tried to go big on day one
and probably lacked some of that meeting
the earth um where where reality lies
and and and adapting accordingly.
>> I remember Google Wave. Uh absolutely.
It was beautiful. A lot of hype. I don't
remember what it was for specifically,
but it it looked really nice.
>> Yeah. I mean a lot of learnings from
that one for me. Yep.
>> What else? Any other big lessons? Those
two are the big ones. But I would also
say like questionbased assumptions on
everything.
You know, sometimes we get into traps
where we are as professionals
hyperfocused on what we're building that
day, that week, that month. And we don't
stop to think, should we even build this
at all? Or what's the purpose of
building this? could rebuild something
completely different that would matter
more to our core reason for being. So I
would say yeah question the sort of base
assumptions. It's somewhat of a cliche
but you really need to remind yourself
to apply it over and over and over
again.
>> I had a colleague of yours on the
podcast back in the day IO who worked
with you on Cash App.
>> Yeah.
>> He's a friend of mine. He's uh amazing.
He had met a quote along those lines of
just like I forget exactly what it was,
but it was just like get to the bare
metal of the thing that you're working
on. Just like touch the thing that
you're building and go to the the base
of it to really understand what's going
on. And I imagine that was really
important with building Cash App and
Cash Guard.
>> Yeah, IO's uh one of the best product
people I've ever worked with and um you
know, one of my closest friends
actually. So, absolutely with him on and
you on that one. Yeah. Okay. I'm going
to take us to a a recurring segment on
the podcast. I call fail corner. You
already shared one example of a product
that failed that you worked on. I'm
curious if there's another and the
question is just what's a product you
worked on that did not work out because
people listening to this have all hear
all these amazing successful people come
on the podcast share all these stories
of success, endless success, but they
don't hear the stories of when things
don't work out. And so the question is
just what's a product you're working on
that didn't work out and what did that
teach you? It's a very valuable point. I
mean, my career has basically been a
string of failed product on top of
failed product. And I think that yeah,
the Google Wave example is there. I
worked for hot minute on Google+ which
was another epic failure.
>> Good one.
>> I worked at this social networking
startup called Secret, which um you
know, burned hot for a bright minute and
then blew up. And then there was uh an
email startup that we did and that was
again very promising. Uh and then that
sort of fizzled. So the the co-founder
of Canva and I worked on that one. So
there's been a whole string of failures.
But at each point I think I learned
something and I learned that you know I
need to never make that class of
failures or errors again. And so Cash
App was probably like the big success
for me, that a product that I worked on
that was very early on and grew to be um
this sort of giant business and and
product that people love.
And so yeah, that that's been my career
is essentially taking the learnings from
all these failures,
getting some humility out of it in the
process too, coming into things. Um,
willing to listen to other people's
points of view, critical points of view,
and not just kind of thinking that I
have all the answers. Yeah.
>> And I I bet all these products that fail
had really beautiful code. A lot of
really good architecture decisions were
made. [laughter]
Some of them Some of them were awful in
every way.
So many reasons for it to fail.
Incredible. Uh Dandre, is there anything
else that you wanted to share or I don't
know, double down on before we get to
our very exciting lightning round? Uh, I
would say, you know, I think that we're
in this era of a lot of change and
people are scared or reticent or
uncertain about where things are going.
And I think that look at the things that
matter to you. You know, for us, it's
open source, open protocols, improving
access for everyone. You know, I've been
very lucky in my career to only work on
products that are either free or almost
free to anyone, you know, or they have a
free tier and then you kind of pay for
some premium services and that are
usable by everyone. So, like anyone can
become a Square seller, you know, I I
remember even in the early days people
used it to pay each other as a a
peer-to-peer money transfer system. And
that's why we built cash app and that
was really successful on the back of
that. So I think it's really look at the
things that are important to you um and
optimize for them. It's not really that
important that the technology trends are
going in a certain way because
technology is here to serve us and if we
have an important reason for being and
an important purpose then we can make
that technology serve us and that's much
more important than uh being deep with
the technology or being at the forefront
of every trend.
>> Uh such great advice when there's so
much to pay attention to and so much
happening. so stressful to feel like I'm
just not aware of all the things. I'm
not as good as all these people I'm
seeing on social media about what's
happening with AI. I'm just like so
behind. Uh what I'm hearing from you is
just like what is actually important to
you and just do that. Don't feel like
you need to be the best at everything
that's happening and on top of all the
latest AI news.
>> Yeah, exactly. And like if it's not
meaningful and fun, then you shouldn't
be doing it probably. [laughter]
>> With that, Dan, we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. And I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Okay, shoot.
>> Uh, I see so many books behind you, so I
love this first question. I'm excited to
see what you pick. What are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people? Yeah.
So, I'm very uh much of the opinion that
you shouldn't read books that are about
like your daily work or your
professional life. I I read fiction. I
read classics. I I read poetry,
philosophy, history. These are the books
I really enjoy and I think it expands
your mind and gives you creative ideas
and helps you question things about the
human condition and that's much more
valuable than like some self-help book
on or some get good at being an
engineering manager book. So uh yeah
having said that the master and
margarita by Mika Bulgakov is one that I
really love. It's a masterpiece of
Russian literature.
And then um I've always been drawn to
Tennyson's poetry and I find that um on
in the times when I'm most uncertain and
or grieving
uh Tennyson's poetry has always kind of
resonated with me and and and helped me
find a center.
>> Wow.
>> Those two never heard these
recommendations before. I'm really
excited to check these out. Very cool
for a CTO of of a big tech company.
What is a favorite recent movie or TV
show you really enjoyed? Alien Earth I
think is pretty awesome. It's by Noah
Holly who did the Fargo TV series and so
it's a kind of, you know, it's someone
with like all of these incredible skills
in high art film making who's doing like
a pulp sci-fi show and it just looks
stunning and it feels stunning and it
captures all of that essential alien
uh pulpiness that makes it so
interesting and fun. So, I really like
that. And I'm also watching Slow Horses,
which I think is one of the better shows
on TV.
>> Love Slow Horses. The new season's out.
I think the fifth episode just dropped
the day we're recording this. So, um, I
love that show. Alien Earth, also just
watched it. So creepy and just like all
these slimy, gooey little creatures just
crawling around. It's disturbing.
>> I just love the aesthetic and they
captured something essential about like
the original alien. And yeah, and they
do it like every scene in Alien Earth
feels like you're watching a painting or
something or you know, someone's reading
a novel to you. It's like really unfolds
very thoughtfully. I've never watched
any alien content in the in my life and
I really enjoyed Alien Earth. I will say
the ending I was just like like it felt
like it kind of slowed down a bit. I'm
just like, "All right, I guess I see
where it's going now." But it was really
fun to watch. Okay, next question. Do
you have a favorite product you really
enjoyed? Sorry. Your favorite product
you recently discovered that you really
enjoy. Could be an app, could be a
gadget, could be some kitchen thing.
>> Uh, well, I'm a gamer. I love playing
games. So, for me, it's the Steam Deck,
the Steam Deck OLED, which is their
latest version. It's like this gorgeous
piece of hardware that lets you play,
you know, the best games out there, but
it's totally extensible and
customizable.
And in this era where like we're
constantly told by big tech companies
that we need to lock everything down. We
need to lock down the user experience
and customizability in order to have
things work for people. I think Valve
showed that's totally unnecessary and
totally wrong. And you can build, you
know, the Steam Deck, you can install
competing app stores, you can install
Windows on it, you can treat it like a
computer, write programs, which I have
done, um to run on it. Uh, so yeah, I
think it's an incredible thing and it
looks beautiful and it works great. So
yeah, big fan.
>> Do you have a favorite life motto that
you find yourself coming back to often
in work or in life? If you're not waking
up in the morning feeling energized
about what you're going to do that day
in your professional life,
then change something like quit if
that's what it comes down to or find a
new way of doing what you're doing, you
know? Just don't accept what's meed out
to you. Yeah. So, that's that's how I've
tried to do things and sometimes it
works, sometimes not. But yeah, it's a
good thing to ask yourself.
>> I I really love this advice. It's really
hard to do that for a lot of people. Is
there anything that has helped you get
over that fear of just like, "Oh man,
I'm going to quit this thing. I don't
know where I'm going to go next." The
main thing is
telling yourself that a year from now,
you're going to look back on what looks
like a monumental problem, a
life-changing thing, and you're going to
be like, "Oh, that was so trivial." You
know, like a lot of times we get into
these traps where we're overthinking
something or really nervous about making
a change, but in hindsight, those don't
seem that big. And you know, all the
time that's passed since and all the
events that have happened teach you that
there's more to the world. And you know,
it's never too late to do something
useful or never too late to do something
that's for yourself and improving
yourself. So yeah, I think just kind of
remembering that like things are not as
big or bleak or decisive as they seem in
the moment is always important.
>> Final question. So you were a mad
scientist at Square for many years. Do
you have a another favorite mad
scientist from pop culture or real life?
>> That's an interesting one. I think the
image that always comes to my mind is uh
Doc Brown from Back to the Future. I
feel like he's the canonical mad
scientist of my generation anyway. Uh
but there have been a lot in like video
games and stuff too, but he was the one
that was like, I'm just going to do this
crazy thing because I almost have this
burning desire need to do it and whether
I want to or not, I must build this time
machine. And he spends the entire movie
um trying to fix the problems that it
creates. But yeah, that he's always been
uh like a really fun character for me.
You know what I think about I think
about Pinky from Pinky in the Brain. I
don't know. That's a good one.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Oh man, Danie, this was awesome. You are
wonderful. Thank you so much for being
here. Two final questions before we
actually wrap up. Where can folks find
you online if they want to reach out,
learn more about, say, Goose or anything
else going on at Block? And how can
listeners be useful to you? I mean,
check out our GitHub pages uh for Goose
and all of the other open source
projects we have at Block. So, there's a
lot that's useful there. Um, we do a lot
on Android open source as well, so check
that stuff out. You can always find me
on LinkedIn, so feel free to connect. um
I'm very happy to be contacted
and I would say the way people can be
useful is you know again going back to
this era we're in of a lot of change and
uncertainty
I think people that demand more of their
companies of their employers of their
teams you know demand something better
like at block we always ask can we
default to making this open source can
we build this for people that are not
just us or our customers. Can everyone
benefit? And I think that's particularly
important in this era of AI where
everyone's kind of locking themselves in
walled gardens and trying to capture
parts of the platform that are emerging.
So yeah, just demand more of of people,
you know, like the the internet was
created as a promise for open sharing of
information
and to the benefit of all. And I think
that AI should realize that for us and
so yeah, just demand that of people.
>> A really beautiful way to end it. Doni,
thank you so much for being here.
>> Thank you, Lenny. I really appreciated
it. Thank you.
>> I appreciate you. Bye, everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the [music]
podcast. You can find all past episodes
or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.